.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt d2plugin-tala 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm d2plugin-tala
.Nd plugs into
.Xr d2 1
to layout diagrams via TALA
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm d2plugin-tala
.Op Fl --version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
plugs into
.Xr d2 1
to layout diagrams via TALA. TALA is a diagram layout engine designed
specifically for software architecture diagrams, though it works well in other
domains too. It stands for Terrastruct's Auto-Layout Approach.
.Pp
TALA is free to try and evaluate, but requires an API token to use without
watermark. You can get an API token through your Terrastruct account, or
purchase a standalone one at https://d2lang.com/buy-tala.
.Pp
You can set the API token as environment variable
.Ev $TSTRUCT_TOKEN
.Ns , or in the config authfile at
.Pa ~/.config/tstruct/auth.json
under the field api_token.
.Pp
The advantage to using
.Pa ~/.config/tstruct/auth.json
over
.Ev $TSTRUCT_TOKEN
is that
.Nm
will automatically update the api_token stored in the config authfile as your subscription
renews.
.Pp
It does this by making a ping to Terrastruct's servers when your subscription is set to
renew. For example, if you purchased a monthly subscription on January 1,
.Nm
will make a ping to Terrastruct servers when it's next run after February 1. The new
renewal date will be written to your local authfile. The only data sent in this ping is
the API token, and you can use TALA completely offline before the expiration.
.Pp
After 12 months of subscription, your copy of TALA is valid forever.
.Pp
We do give a grace period of 30 days in case of payment issues where only a warning
is displayed. After the 30 days,
.Nm
reverts to evaluation mode.
.Pp
For further docs see:
.Bl -dash
.It
.Lk https://github.com/terrastruct/TALA
.It
.Lk https://terrastruct.com/tala
.El
.Pp
Check out
.Lk https://text-to-diagram.com
for a comprehensive comparison against other layout engines and diagramming technologies.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr d2 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Terrastruct Inc.
